federalist 41 general view of the powers
conferred by the constitution
for the independent journal madison to
the people of the state of new york
the constitution proposed by the
convention may be considered under two
general points of view
the first relates to the sum or quantity
of power which invests in the government
including the restraints imposed on the
states the second
to the particular structure of the
government and the distribution of this
power among its several branches
under first view of the subject two
important questions arise
one whether any part of the powers
transferred to the general government be
unnecessary or improper
two whether the entire mass of them be
dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction
left in the several states
is the aggregate power of the general
government greater than ought to have
been vested in it
this is the first question it cannot
have escaped those who have attended
with candor to the arguments employed
against the extensive powers of the
government that the authors of them have
very little considered how far these
powers were necessary means of attaining
a necessary end
they have chosen rather to dwell on the
inconveniences which must
be unavoidably blended with all
political advantages and on the possible
abuses which must be incident to every
power or trust
of which a beneficial use can be made
this method of handling the subject
cannot impose on the good sense of the
people of america
it may display the subtlety of the
writer it may open a boundless field for
rhetoric
and declaration it may inflame the
passions of the unthinking and may
confirm the prejudices of the
misthinking
but cruel and candid people will at once
reflect that the purest of human
blessings must have a portion of alloy
in them
that the choice must always be made if
not of the lesser evil
at least of the greater not the perfect
good and that in every political
institution
a power to advance the public happiness
involves a discretion which may be
misapplied and abused
they will see therefore that in all
cases where power is to be conferred the
point first to be decided is
whether such a power be necessary to the
public good as the next will be
in case of an affirmative decision to
guard as effectually as possible against
a perversion of the power to the public
detriment
that we may form a correct judgment on
this subject it will be proper to review
the several powers conferred on the
government of the union and that this
may be the more conveniently done
they may be reduced into different
classes as they relate to the following
different objects
1. security against foreign danger
2. regulation of the intercourse with
foreign nations
3. maintenance of harmony and proper
intercourse among the states
4. certain miscellaneous objects of
general utility
5. restraints of the states from certain
injurious acts
6. provisions for giving due efficacy to
all these powers
the powers falling within the first
class are those of declaring war and
granting letters of mark
of providing armies and fleets of
regulating and calling forth the militia
of levying and borrowing money security
against foreign danger is one of the
primitive objects of civil society
it is an avowed and essential object of
the american union
the power's requisite for attaining it
must be effectually confided to the
federal councils
is the power of declaring war necessary
no man will answer this question in the
negative
it would be superfluous therefore to
enter into a proof of the affirmative
the existing confederation establishes
this power in the most ample form
is the power of raising armies and
equipping fleets necessary
this is involved in the foregoing power
it is involved in the power of
self-defense
but was it necessary to give an
indefinite power of raising troops
as well as providing fleets and of
maintaining both in peace
as well as in war the answer to these
questions has been too far anticipated
in another place to admit an extensive
discussion of them in this place
the answer indeed seems to be so obvious
and conclusive as scarcely to justify
such a discussion in any place
with what color of propriety could the
force necessary for defense be limited
by those who cannot limit the force of
offense
if a federal constitution could chain
the ambition or set bounds to the
exertions of all other nations
then indeed might have prudently chained
the discretion of its own government
and set bounds to the exertions for its
own safety how could a readiness for war
in
time of peace be safely prohibited
unless we could prohibit in like manner
the preparations and establishments of
every hostile nation
the means of security can only be
regulated by the means and the danger of
attack
they will in fact be ever determined by
these rules and by no others
it is in vain to oppose constitutional
barriers to the impulse of
self-preservation
it is worse than in vain because it
plants in the constitution itself
necessary usurpations of power
every precedent of which is a germ of
unnecessary and multiplied repetitions
if one nation maintains constantly a
disciplined army ready for the service
of ambition or revenge
it obliges the most pacific nations who
may be within the reach of its
enterprises to take corresponding
precautions
the 15th century was the unhappy epic of
military establishments in the time of
peace
they were introduced by charles vii of
france all europe has followed or been
forced into the example
had the example not been followed by
other nations all europe must
long ago have won the chains of a
universal monarch
where every nation except france now to
disband its peace establishments
the same event might follow the veteran
legions of rome were an overmatch for
the undisciplined valor
of all other nations and rendered her
the mistress of the world
not the less true is it that the
liberties of rome proved the final
victim to her military triumphs
and that the liberties of europe as far
as they ever existed have
with few exceptions been the price of
her military establishments
a standing force therefore is a
dangerous at the same time that it may
be a necessary
provision on the smaller scale it has
its inconveniences
on an extensive scale its consequences
may be fatal
on any scale it is an object of laudable
circumspection and precaution
a wise nation will combine all these
considerations and whilst it does not
rashly preclude itself from any resource
which may become essential to its safety
we'll exert all its prudence in
diminishing both the necessity and the
danger of resorting to one which
may be inauspicious to its liberties the
clearest marks of this prudence are
stamped on the proposed constitution
the union itself which it cements and
secures destroys every pretext for a
military establishment which could be
dangerous
america united with a handful of troops
or without a single soldier
exhibits a more forbidding posture to
form an ambition than america disunited
with a hundred thousand veterans ready
for combat
it was remarked on a former occasion
that the want of this pretext had saved
the liberties of one nation in europe
being rendered by her insular situation
and her maritime resources impregnable
to the armies of her neighbors
the rulers of great britain have never
been able by real or artificial dangers
to cheat the public into an extensive
peace establishment
the distance of the united states from
the powerful nations of the world gives
them the same happy security
a dangerous establishment can never be
necessary or plausible
so long as they continue a united people
but let it never for a moment be
forgotten that they are indebted for
this advantage to the union alone
the moment of its dissolution will be
the date of a new order of things
the fears of the weaker or the ambition
of the stronger states or confederacies
will set the same example in the new
as charles vii did in the old world the
example will be followed here from the
same motives which produced universal
imitation there
instead of deriving from our situation
the precious advantage which great
britain has derived from hers
the face of america will be but a copy
of that of the continent of europe
it will present liberty everywhere
crushed between standing armies and
perpetual taxes
the fortunes of disunited america will
be even more disastrous than those of
europe
the sources of evil in the latter are
confined to her own limits
no superior powers of another quarter of
the globe intrigue among her rival
nations inflame their mutual animosities
and render them the instruments of
foreign ambition
jealousy and revenge in america the
misery springing from her internal
jealousies contentions and wars
would form a part only of her lot a
plentiful addition of evils would have
their source in that relation in which
europe stands to this quarter of the
earth
and which no other quarter of the earth
bears to europe
this picture of the consequence of
disunion cannot be too highly coloured
or too often exhibited
every man who loves peace every man who
loves his country
every man who loves liberty ought to
have it ever before his eyes
that he may cherish in his heart to do
attachment to the union of america
and be able to set a due value on the
means of preserving it
next to the effectual establishment of
the union the best possible precaution
against danger from standing armies is a
limitation
of the term for which revenue may be
appropriated to their support
this precaution the constitution has
prudently added
i will not repeat here the observations
which i flatter myself have placed this
subject in a just and satisfactory light
but it may not be improper to take
notice of an argument against this part
of the constitution which has been drawn
from the policy and practice of great
britain
it is said that the continuance of an
army in that kingdom requires an annual
vote of the legislature
whereas the american constitution has
lengthened this critical period to two
years
this is the form in which the comparison
is usually stated to the public
but is it a just form is it a fair
comparison
does the british constitution restrain
the parliamentary discretion to one year
does the american impose on the congress
appropriations for two years
on the contrary it cannot be unknown to
the authors of the fallacy themselves
that the british constitution fixes no
limit whatever to the discretion of the
legislature
and that the american ties down the
legislature to two years as the longest
admissible term
had the argument from the british
example been truly stated
it would have stood thus the term for
which supplies may be appropriated to
the army establishment
though unlimited by the british
constitution has nevertheless in
practice been limited by parliamentary
discretion to a single year
now if in great britain where the house
of commons is elected for seven years
where so great a proportion of the
members are elected by so small a
proportion of the people
where the electors are so corrupted by
the representatives and the
representatives so corrupted by the
crown
the representative body can possess a
power to make appropriations to the army
for an indefinite term
without desiring or without daring to
extend the term beyond a single
year op not suspicion herself to blush
in pretending that the representatives
of the united states elected freely by
the whole body of the people
every second year cannot be safely
entrusted with the discretion over such
appropriations
expressly limited to the short period of
two years
a bad cause seldom fails to betray
itself of this truth the management of
the opposition to the federal government
is an unvaried exemplification
but among all the blunders which have
been committed none is more striking
than the attempt to enlist on that side
the prudent jealousy
entertained by the people of standing
armies the attempt has awakened fully
the public attention to that important
subject
and has led to investigations which must
terminate in a thorough and universal
conviction not only that the
constitution has provided the most
effectual guards against danger from
that quarter but that nothing short of a
constitution fully adequate to the
national defense and the preservation of
the union
can save america from as many standing
armies as it may be split into
states or confederacies and from such a
progressive augmentation of these
establishments in each
as we'll render them as burdensome to
the properties and ominous to the
liberties of the people
as any establishment that can become
necessary under a united and efficient
government must be tolerated to the
former and safe to the latter
the palpable necessity of the power to
provide and maintain a navy
has protected that part of the
constitution against a spirit of censure
which has spared few other parts
it must indeed be numbered among the
greatest blessings of america
that as her union will be the only
source of her maritime strength
so this will be a principle source of
her security against danger from abroad
in this respect our situation bears
another likeness to the insular
advantage of great britain
the batteries most capable of repelling
foreign enterprises on our safety are
happily such as can never be turned by a
perfidious government against our
liberties
the inhabitants of the atlantic frontier
are all of them deeply interested in
this provision for naval protection
and if they have hitherto been suffered
to sleep quietly in their beds
if their property has remained safe
against the predatory spirit of
licentious adventurers
if their maritime towns have not yet
been compelled to ransom themselves from
the terrors of a conflagration
by yielding to the exactions of daring
and sudden invaders
these instances of good fortune are not
to be ascribed to the capacity of the
existing government for the protection
of those from whom it claims allegiance
but to causes that are fugitive
and fallacious if we accept perhaps
virginia and maryland which are
peculiarly vulnerable
on their eastern frontiers no part of
the union ought to feel more anxiety on
this subject than new york
her seacoast is extensive a very
important district of the state
is an island the state itself is
penetrated by a large navigable river
from more than 50 leagues
the great emporium of its commerce the
great reservoir of its wealth
lies every moment at the mercy of events
and may almost be regarded as a hostage
for ignominious compliances with the
dictates of a foreign enemy
or even with the rapacious demands of
pirates and barbarians
should a war be the result of the
precarious situation of european affairs
and all the unruly passions attending it
be let loose on the ocean
our escape from insults and depredations
not only on that element but every part
of the other bordering on it
will be truly miraculous in the present
condition of america
the states more immediately exposed to
these calamities have nothing to hope
from the phantom of a general government
which now exists
and if their single resources were equal
to the task of fortifying themselves
against the danger
the object to be protected would be
almost consumed by the means of
protecting them
the power of regulating and calling
forth the militia has been already
sufficiently vindicated and explained
the power of levying and borrowing money
being the sinew of that which is to be
exerted in the national defense
is properly thrown into the same class
with it this power also has been
examined already with much attention and
has i trust been clearly shown to be
necessary
both in the extent and form given to it
by the constitution
i will address one additional reflection
only to those who contend that the power
ought to have been restrained to
external taxation by which they mean
taxes on articles imported from other
countries
it cannot be doubted that this will
always be a valuable source of revenue
that for a considerable time it must be
a principle source
that at this moment it is an essential
one but we may form very mistaken ideas
on this subject
if we do not call to mind in our
calculations that the extent of revenue
drawn from foreign commerce must vary
with the variations
both in the extent and the kind of
imports and that these variations do not
correspond with the progress of
population
which must be the general measure of the
public wants
as long as agriculture continues the
sole field of labor
the importation of manufacturers must
increase as the consumers multiply
as soon as domestic manufactures are
begun by the hands not called for by
agriculture
the imported manufactures will decrease
as the numbers of people increase
in a more remote stage the imports may
consist in a considerable part of raw
materials which will be wrought into
articles for exportation
and will therefore require rather the
encouragement of bounties than to be
loaded with discouraging duties
a system of government meant for
duration ought to contemplate these
revolutions
and be able to accommodate itself to
them some who have not denied the
necessity of the power of taxation
have grounded a very fierce attack
against the constitution on the language
in which it is defined
it has been urged and echoed that the
power to lay and collect
taxes duties imposts and excises to pay
the debts
and provide for the common defense and
general welfare of the united states
amounts to an unlimited commission to
exercise every power which may be
alleged to be necessary for the common
defense or general welfare
no stronger proof could be given of the
distress under which these writers labor
for objections
than they're stooping to such a
misconstruction had no other enumeration
or definition of the powers of the
congress been found in the constitution
than the general expressions just cited
the authors of the objection might have
had some color for it
though it would have been difficult to
find a reason for so awkward a form of
describing an authority to legislate in
all possible cases
a power to destroy the freedom of the
press the trial by jury or even to
regulate the course of dissents
or the form of conveyances must be very
singularly expressed by the terms
to raise money for the general welfare
but what color can the objection have
when a specification of the objects
alluded to by these general terms
immediately follows
and is not even separated by a longer
pause than a semicolon
if the different parts of the same
instrument ought to be so expounded
as to give meaning to every part which
will bear it shall one part of the same
sentence be excluded altogether from a
share in the meaning
and shall the more doubtful and
indefinite terms be retained in their
full extent
and the clear and precise expressions be
denied any signification whatsoever
for what purpose could the enumeration
of particular powers be inserted if
these and all others were meant to be
included in the preceding general power
nothing is more natural nor common than
first to use a general phrase
and then to explain and qualify it by a
recital of particulars
but the idea of an enumeration of
particulars which neither explain or
qualify the general meaning
and can have no other effect than to
confound and mislead
is an absurdity which as we are reduced
to the dilemma of charging either on the
authors of the objection or on the
authors of the constitution
we must take the liberty of supposing
had not its origin with the latter
the objection here is the more
extraordinary as it appears that the
language used by the convention is a
copy from the articles of confederation
the objects of the union among the
states as described in article 3
are their common defense security of
their liberties
and mutual and general welfare the terms
of article 8
are still more identical all charges of
war and all other expenses that shall be
incurred for the common defense or
general welfare and allowed by the
united states in congress
shall be defrayed out of a common
treasury etc
a similar language again occurs in
article 9.
construe either of these articles by the
rules which would justify the
construction put on the new constitution
and they've asked in the existing
congress a power to legislate in all
cases whatsoever
but what would have been thought of that
assembly if attaching themselves to
these general expressions and
disregarding the specifications which
ascertain and limit their import they
had exercised an unlimited power of
providing for the common defense and
general welfare
i appeal to the objectors themselves
whether they would in that case have
employed the same reasoning and
justification of congress
as they now make use of against the
convention
how difficult it is for error to escape
its own condemnation
publius